DOCS-1825: Document teleop page as how-to (#3675)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/how-tos/configure-teleop-workspace.md

  Enter the name of the sensor for **Sensor name** and enter the key for the value in **Path**, for example `time_unix`.
  Optionally, add **Units** and give the stat a **Widget title**.

  Then, add that same sensor as a time series graph.
  Click **Add widget** again and select **Time series**, which allows you to graph sensor values over time.
  Enter the name of the sensor for **Sensor name**.
  Give the graph a line title and enter the key for the sensor value in **Path**, for example `time_unix`.
  Add more lines if your sensor measures multiple values.

Now your workspace setup is complete:

{{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/configured-workspace.png" resize="700x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter" declaredimensions=true alt="Teleop workspace with values configured for each of the four widgets.">}}

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**3. Select a machine**

Now, select a machine with which to make your teleop workspace come to life.
Select **Monitor** in the top right corner to leave editing mode.
Click **Select machine** and select your configured machine.

Your dashboard now shows the configured widgets for the data from your machine:

> {{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/full-workspace.png" resize="900x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter" declaredimensions=true alt="Teleop workspace with values configured for each of the four widgets on monitor mode.">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/full-workspace.png" resize="900x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter imgzoom" declaredimensions=true alt="Teleop workspace with values configured for each of the four widgets on monitor mode.">}}
```

You can go back to **Edit** mode and drag and drop the widgets' panes around to edit their appearance.
For example:

> {{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/four-panes.png" resize="900x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter" declaredimensions=true alt="Teleop workspace with values configured for each of the four widgets on monitor mode with four panes.">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/four-panes.png" resize="900x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter imgzoom" declaredimensions=true alt="Teleop workspace with values configured for each of the four widgets on monitor mode with four panes.">}}
```

---
title: "Configure a teleop workspace"
linkTitle: "Configure a teleop workspace"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "Create and configure a teleop workspace with widgets."
images: ["/how-tos/teleop/full-workspace.png"]
icon: true
tags: ["teleop", "configuration"]
languages: []
viamresources: ["sensor", "camera", "movement sensor"]
platformarea: ["viz", "data"]
level: "Intermediate"
date: "2024-11-13"
# updated: "2024-08-26"  # When the tutorial was last entirely checked
cost: "0"
---

> You can use teleop to create a custom workspace where you can visualize data from a machine.

Reviewer: [opt] but I think that captures what you can do with sensor data better
```suggestion
You can use teleop to create a custom workspace where you can visualize and aggregate data from a machine.
```

> Follow this guide to learn how to create a custom workspace using teleop, visualizing data from a camera, a sensor, or a movement sensor.

Reviewer: This duplicates the first sentence almost completely. 
```suggestion
You can currently visualize data from a camera, a sensor, or a movement sensor.
```

{{% alert title="In this page" color="info" %}}

- [Configure a workspace](#configure-a-workspace)

{{% /alert %}}

## Prerequisites

{{% expand "A configured machine with teleoperable components" %}}

Make sure your machine has at least one of the following:

- A [camera](/components/camera/)
- A [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/)
- A [sensor](/components/sensor/)

> See [configure a machine](/how-tos/configure/) for more information.

Author: figure this covers device requirements and viam app requirements? lmk and I can add more but this isn't a super basic thing to do with viam so I figured a tiny bit of cross-linking was ok

Reviewer: yep, I like it

{{% /expand%}}

## Configure a workspace

{{< table >}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**1. Create a workspace in the Viam app**

Log in to the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/).

Navigate to the **FLEET** page's **TELEOP** tab.
Create a workspace by clicking **+ Create workspace**.
Give it a name.

> {{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/blank-workspace.png" resize="800x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter" declaredimensions=true alt="Blank teleop page.">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/blank-workspace.png" resize="800x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter imgzoom" declaredimensions=true alt="Blank teleop page.">}}
```

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**2. Add widgets**

> You are prompted to add a widget to add teleop visualizations to your workspace.

Reviewer: Unless you mean that pulsing animation, there is nothing prompting anyone to add a widget.
```suggestion
```

Author: I did mean the pulsing animation but I can see how that's a small detail that would be ignored

Click **Add widget** and select the appropriate widget for your machine.
Repeat as many times as necessary.

> - If you have a camera, select **Camera stream**, which allows you to view a camera stream.

Reviewer: I don't think these should be needed. The UI should be self explanatory from here, shouldn't it? If it isn't this is a place where we should work with Product to improve the UI instead. See notes below

Author: Do you mean to suggest removing all of these bullets? Just want to be sure. I agree the UI should be self explanatory

Reviewer: yes

  Enter the name of your camera.

> - If you have a movement sensor, select a **GPS map**, which allows you to map the location of a machine.

Reviewer: Mapping is when you use lidar or other sensors to create a map. Here you are not mapping. you are displaying a location of a machine on a map.
```suggestion
- If you have a movement sensor, select a **GPS map**, which displays the location of a machine on a map.
```

Author: ok, thank you for the explanation

  Enter the name of your movement sensor.

>   Toggle **Historic positions** to on to see how position has changed over time.

Reviewer: did you test this? Does this create a heatmap or how is this visualized?

- If you have a sensor, select **Stat** to view a single sensor value.

>   Enter the name of the sensor for **Sensor name** and enter the key for the value in **Path**, for example `time_unix`.

Reviewer: I think for these it would be good to add a tip for people trying to figure out how to get the path (go to machine's test panel and check the returned json object. should probably also include what to do if it's inside another object)

However, this should ideally be a tooltip in the app. Please file the appropriate ticket with a suggestion for copy.

Author: They are going to make it autoselect so I think it's not worth filing that as it would quickly be deprecated, does that make sense? @npentrel

Reviewer: sounds good

  Optionally, add **Units** and give the stat a **Widget title**.

  Then, add that same sensor as a time series graph.
  Click **Add widget** again and select **Time series**, which allows you to graph sensor values over time.
  Enter the name of the sensor for **Sensor name**.
  Give the graph a line title and enter the key for the sensor value in **Path**, for example `time_unix`.
  Add more lines if your sensor measures multiple values.

Now your workspace setup is complete:

{{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/configured-workspace.png" resize="700x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter" declaredimensions=true alt="Teleop workspace with values configured for each of the four widgets.">}}

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**3. Select a machine**

Now, select a machine with which to make your teleop workspace come to life.
Select **Monitor** in the top right corner to leave editing mode.
Click **Select machine** and select your configured machine.

> Your workspace now appears like the following depending on which widgets you've configured:

Reviewer: I think the sentence can either completely go or just point out that the dashboard should now show something. 
```suggestion
Your dashboard now shows the configured widgets for the data from your machine:
```

{{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/full-workspace.png" resize="900x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter" declaredimensions=true alt="Teleop workspace with values configured for each of the four widgets on monitor mode.">}}

You can go back to **Edit** mode and drag and drop the widgets' panes around to edit their appearance.
For example:

{{<imgproc src="/how-tos/teleop/four-panes.png" resize="900x" style="width: 500px" class="fill aligncenter" declaredimensions=true alt="Teleop workspace with values configured for each of the four widgets on monitor mode with four panes.">}}

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{< /table >}}

## Next steps

Follow more of our how-to guides to do more with the Viam platform:

{{< cards >}}
{{% card link="/how-tos/detect-people/" %}}
{{% card link="/how-tos/drive-rover/" %}}
{{% card link="/how-tos/train-deploy-ml/" %}}

> {{% card link="/how-tos/upload-data/" %}}

Reviewer: I think three is generally the max because then it doesn't spill into two lines
```suggestion
```

---
title: "Configure a teleop workspace"
linkTitle: "Configure a teleop workspace"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "Create and configure a teleop workspace with widgets."
images: ["/how-tos/teleop/full-workspace.png"]
icon: true
tags: ["teleop", "configuration"]
languages: []
viamresources: ["sensor", "camera", "movement sensor"]
platformarea: ["viz", "data"]
level: "Intermediate"
date: "2024-11-13"
# updated: "2024-08-26"  # When the tutorial was last entirely checked
cost: "0"
---

You can use teleop to create a custom workspace where you can visualize and aggregate data from a machine.
You can currently visualize data from a camera, a sensor, or a movement sensor.

{{% alert title="In this page" color="info" %}}

- [Configure a workspace](#configure-a-workspace)

{{% /alert %}}

## Prerequisites

{{% expand "A configured machine with teleoperable components" %}}

Make sure your machine has at least one of the following:

> - A camera, movement sensor, sensor, base, arm, board, gantry, gripper, motor or servo

Author: updated this for actuation-- I figure not updating the screenshots to also include an actuation widget is fine for this demo as its pretty self explanatory but if anyone thinks differently I can update/retake the screenshots
